---
redirect_from:
  - /getting-started/cloud/create-data-model
---

# Create your first data model

<InfoBox heading="Getting Started with Cube Cloud">

[Join our Cube Cloud Office Hours on August 23rd](https://event.on24.com/wcc/r/4314738/57FE0F7DCCEA887295E4BCD818061E2B?partnerref=docs)
to jumpstart your Cube Cloud account and gain insights on connecting data
sources, creating data models, and integrating your data apps.

</InfoBox>

Cube follows a dataset-oriented data modeling approach, which is inspired by and
expands upon dimensional modeling. Cube incorporates this approach and provides
a practical framework for implementing dataset-oriented data modeling.

When building a data model in Cube, you work with two dataset-centric objects:
**cubes** and **views**. **Cubes** usually represent business entities such as
customers, line items, and orders. In cubes, you define all the calculations
within the measures and dimensions of these entities. Additionally, you define
relationships between cubes, such as "an order has many line items" or "a user
may place multiple orders."

**Views** sit on top of a data graph of cubes and create a facade of your entire
data model, with which data consumers can interact. You can think of views as
the final data products for your data consumers - BI users, data apps, AI
agents, etc. When building views, you select measures and dimensions from
different connected cubes and present them as a single dataset to BI or data
apps.

<Diagram
  alt="Architecture diagram of queries being sent to cubes and views"
  src="https://ucarecdn.com/bfc3e04a-b690-40bc-a6f8-14a9175fb4fd/"
/>

## Working with cubes

To begin building your data model, click on <Btn>Enter Development Mode</Btn> in
Cube Cloud. This will take you to your personal developer space, where you can
safely make changes to your data model without affecting the production
environment.

In the previous section, we generated four cubes from the Snowflake schema. To
see the data graph of these four cubes and how they are connected to each other,
click the <Btn>Show Graph</Btn> button on the Data Model page.

Let's review the `orders` cube first and update it with additional dimensions
and measures.

Once you are in developer mode, navigate to the <Btn>Data Model</Btn> and click
on the `orders.yml` file in the left sidebar inside the `model/cubes` directory
to open it.

You should see the following content of `model/cubes/orders.yml` file.

```yaml
cubes:
  - name: orders
    sql_table: ECOM.ORDERS

    joins:
      - name: users
        sql: "{CUBE}.USER_ID = {users}.USER_ID"
        relationship: many_to_one

    dimensions:
      - name: status
        sql: STATUS
        type: string

      - name: id
        sql: ID
        type: number
        primary_key: true

      - name: created_at
        sql: CREATED_AT
        type: time

      - name: completed_at
        sql: COMPLETED_AT
        type: time

    measures:
      - name: count
        type: count
```

As you can see, we already have a `count` measure that we can use to calculate
the total count of our orders.

Let's add an additional measure to the `orders` cube to calculate only
**completed orders**. The `status` dimension in the `orders` cube reflects the
three possible statuses: **processing**, **shipped**, or **completed**. We will
create a new measure `completed_count` by using a filter on that dimension. To
do this, we will use a
[filter parameter](/product/data-modeling/reference/measures#filters) of the
measure and
[refer](/product/data-modeling/fundamentals/syntax#referring-to-objects) to the
existing dimension.

Add the following measure definition to your `model/cubes/orders.yml` file. It
should be included within the `measures` block.

```yaml
- name: completed_count
  type: count
  filters:
    - sql: "{CUBE}.status = 'completed'"
```

With these two measures in place, `count` and `completed_count`, we can create a
**derived measure**. Derived measures are measures that you can create based on
existing measures. Let's create the `completed_percentage` derived measure.

Add the following measure definition to your `model/cubes/orders.yml` file
within the `measures` block.

```yaml
- name: completed_percentage
  type: number
  sql: "({completed_count} / NULLIF({count}, 0)) * 100.0"
  format: percent
```

Below you can see what your updated `orders` cube should look like with two new
measures. Feel free to copy this code and paste it into your
`model/cubes/order.yml` file.

```yaml
cubes:
  - name: orders
    sql_table: ECOM.ORDERS

    joins:
      - name: users
        sql: "{CUBE}.USER_ID = {users}.USER_ID"
        relationship: many_to_one

    dimensions:
      - name: status
        sql: STATUS
        type: string

      - name: id
        sql: ID
        type: number
        primary_key: true

      - name: created_at
        sql: CREATED_AT
        type: time

      - name: completed_at
        sql: COMPLETED_AT
        type: time

    measures:
      - name: count
        type: count

      - name: completed_count
        type: count
        filters:
          - sql: "{CUBE}.status = 'completed'"

      - name: completed_percentage
        type: number
        sql: "({completed_count} / NULLIF({count}, 0)) * 100.0"
        format: percent
```

Click <Btn>Save All</Btn> in the upper corner to save changes to the data model.
Now, you can navigate to Cubeâ€™s Playground. The Playground is a web-based tool
that allows you to query your data without connecting any tools or writing any
code. It's the fastest way to explore and test your data model.

You can select measures and dimensions from different cubes in playground,
including your newly created `completed_percentage` measure.

## Working with views

When building views, we recommend following entity-oriented design and
structuring your views around your business entities. Usually, cubes tend to be
normalized entities without duplicated or redundant members, while views are
denormalized entities where you pick as many measures and dimensions from
multiple cubes as needed to describe a business entity.

Let's create our first view, which will provide all necessary measures and
dimensions to explore orders. Views are usually located in the `views` folder
and have a `_view` postfix.

Create `model/views/orders_view.yml` with the following content:

```yaml
views:
  - name: orders_view

    cubes:
      - join_path: orders
        includes:
          - status
          - created_at
          - count
          - completed_count
          - completed_percentage

      - join_path: orders.users
        prefix: true
        includes:
          - city
          - age
          - state
```

When building views, you can leverage the `cubes` parameter, which enables you
to include measures and dimensions from other cubes in the view. You can build
your view by combining multiple joined cubes and specifying the path by which
they should be joined for that particular view.

After saving, you can experiment with your newly created view in the Playground.
In the next section, we will learn how to query our `orders_view` using a BI
tool.
