---
redirect_from:
  - /guides/data-store-cost-saving-guide
---

# Data Store Cost Saving Guide

As a semantic layer, Cube supports various [data
sources][ref-config-data-sources], including cloud-based data warehouses and
regular databases, and various [use cases][ref-intro] such as embedded analytics
and business intelligence.

Depending on the upstream data source and the use case, Cube can be configured
in a way that provides the best economic effect and maximizes cost savings.

## Reducing Data Store Usage

Cloud-based data stores commonly use two pricing models: _on-demand_, when you
get charged for the storage and compute resources used to process each query, or
_flat-rate_, when queries consume an pre-agreed resource quota.

Regardless of the pricing model, it's usually a good idea to implement measures
that reduce usage:

- In case of the on-demand model, reduced usage will directly lead to a reduced
  bill.
- In case of the flat-rate model, reduced usage will reduce resource contention
  and leave more spare resources to other consumers (e.g., for ad-hoc
  exploration) or allow to reduce the allocated quota, leading to a reduced
  bill.

Often, reducing data store usage allows cloud-based [data
warehouses][snowflake-auto-suspend] and [regular databases][neon-auto-suspend]
to more frequently auto-suspend their compute resources or scale them down to
zero.

### Using pre-aggregations

Cube queries upstream data sources for the following purposes:

- Serving interactive queries, incoming to any of [supported
  APIs][ref-config-apis], and populating the first, in-memory, layer of caching.
- Populating pre-aggregations, the second layer of [caching][ref-caching].
- Ensuring and checking the freshness of data in both layers of caching.

[Pre-aggregations][ref-caching-using-pre-aggs] are one of Cube's core tenets.
They contain condensed subsets of source data, optimized for serving queries
more effectively than a data store is able to. Using pre-aggregations is the
most effective way to reduce data store usage and costs.

<InfoBox>

When defining your data model or generally operating the semantic layer,
consider [inspecting your queries][ref-query-history] and [configuring necessary
pre-aggregations][ref-caching-using-pre-aggs] on a periodic basis.

</InfoBox>

### Preventing non-cached queries

In some use cases, it's possible to configure pre-aggregations in a way that
they match all necessary queries and always serve them from cache. However, a
new or malformed query would still be able to hit the data store. Preventing
non-cached queries ensures that accidental spend can't happen.

Cube supports the [rollup-only mode][ref-caching-rollup-only-mode] which
prevents queries from hitting the data store. Only queries served from
pre-aggregations are allowed; other queries are rejected.

<InfoBox>

Consider using the rollup-only mode if all your queries are matched by
pre-aggregations and served from cache. Use [Query History][ref-query-history]
to check the status of any query.

</InfoBox>

### Refreshing data timely

Pre-aggregations are populated by Cube on [schedule][ref-pre-agg-refresh-key], a
[condition][ref-pre-agg-refresh-key], or an external trigger. Adjusting the
timing and frequency of pre-aggregation refresh in accordance with your use case
can substantially reduce the data store usage and costs. For example, if you
know that data is loaded and transformed in a data warehouse daily, it makes
sense to refresh pre-aggregations with the same cadence.

<InfoBox>

Consider configuring the [refresh keys][ref-pre-agg-refresh-key] of
pre-aggregations according to your use case.

</InfoBox>

In real-time use cases, when queries should return fresh data, it is still
possible to leverage pre-aggregations. Cube supports [lambda
pre-aggregations][ref-caching-lambda-pre-aggs] which transparently combine
cached data and recent data from the data store. Lambda pre-aggregations can
reduce data store usage in cases when queries span both historical and recent
data.

<InfoBox>

Cosider using [lambda pre-aggregations][ref-caching-lambda-pre-aggs] in
real-time use cases.

</InfoBox>

### Refreshing data incrementally

Often, [fact tables][wiki-fact-table] contain [time-series][wiki-time-series]
data that change in time by appending new rows, not updating the existing ones.
In that case, data can be partitioned by a time dimension and only metrics
calculated from the last partition would need to be updated when new data
arrives. For example, the volume of sales at Acme Corporation in year 2022
doesn't change when new orders are made in 2023; however, the volume of sales in
year 2023 will be changing as new orders are made during that year. Caching
metrics for historical data and refreshing time-series data incrementally can
help drastically reduce data source usage.

Cube supports [partitioned and incrementally
refreshed][ref-caching-partitioning-pre-aggs] pre-aggregations that, on update,
retrieve only the last partition of data from the data store.

<InfoBox>

Consider configuring [partitions][ref-caching-partitioning-pre-aggs] and using
incremental refresh for time-series data. Use the
[Pre-aggregations][ref-workspace-pre-aggs] view to check the status of every
partition.

</InfoBox>

Moreover, Cube supports customizable update windows that may span more than one
partition, supporting use cases when relatively fresh historical data is indeed
being updated. For example, financial transactions are often [settled in two or
three business days][wiki-settlement-cycle]; however, certain facts about
transactions can change between their creation and settlementâ€”but never after a
transaction was settled. In this case, it makes sense to use an update window
that spans from creation to settlement.

<InfoBox>

Consider configuring wider [update windows][ref-caching-partitioning-pre-aggs]
when data outside the last partition can be updated.

</InfoBox>

[ref-config-data-sources]: /product/configuration/data-sources
[ref-intro]: /product/introduction
[ref-caching]: /product/caching
[ref-pre-agg-refresh-key]:
  /product/data-modeling/reference/pre-aggregations#refresh_key
[ref-config-apis]: /product/configuration/visualization-tools#ap-is-references
[ref-caching-using-pre-aggs]: /product/caching/getting-started-pre-aggregations
[ref-query-history]: /product/workspace/query-history
[ref-caching-using-pre-aggs]: /product/caching/using-pre-aggregations
[ref-caching-rollup-only-mode]:
  /product/caching/using-pre-aggregations#rollup-only-mode
[ref-caching-lambda-pre-aggs]: /product/caching/lambda-pre-aggregations
[wiki-fact-table]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fact_table
[wiki-time-series]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_series
[ref-caching-partitioning-pre-aggs]:
  /product/caching/using-pre-aggregations#partitioning
[wiki-settlement-cycle]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T%2B2
[ref-workspace-pre-aggs]:
  http://localhost:8000/cloud/inspecting-pre-aggregations
[snowflake-auto-suspend]:
  https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/warehouses-overview#auto-suspension-and-auto-resumption
[neon-auto-suspend]: https://neon.tech/docs/introduction/autoscaling
